Always coming out with optimistic. Right. What
did you think about that? Did you share that? No, I
think I just said that a minute ago. I was very
disappointed because, well, initially, you
know, the first tour for the first three or four
months, you're pumped full of vinegar. But then
you see my unit had been there since 1962. And you
start getting guys back in or you talk to guys
who's, been there, and they're saying, you know,
we were doing the same damn thing in 62, for
instance. Our battalion maintenance officer on
my first tour, a good friend of mine, Tom Cooper,
had first, as a pilot, took his first hit at Doc Tobe
in 63. He came in with the company originally. Of
course, he was coming back to that company. He
liked that area, I guess. I don't know. And you
think about it and you say, my God, you know, we're
going back out and we're doing the same damn thing
in the same area they did it before. Well, I started
repeating that cycle after about three months.
We're going into the same LZs. A lot of times after
the same units. You get to thinking, well, this is
bullshit. Find out where these suckers live and
get them. And they lived across the border. They
lived in Laos and Cambodia. And we would have raids
over there. Those were special operations. I
don't know what the status is on that. But we didn't
go after them where they lived. And had we gone
after them where they lived, not necessarily with
ground troops, but with special troops, and with
effective bombing, much like Nixon did later on, I
think we would have put quite a strain on their
logistics before they'd had a chance to build them
up. What about all the times Westmoreland said,
you know, he could see the light at the end of the
tunnel? I thought it was bullshit. I thought it was
bullshit then, and I'm not talking 20-20
hindsight. I have letters that I've written to my
wife. I've read you some of those letters. In 1967,
I thought it was bullshit. That if we didn't
change, we
were... not going to win. And as a result, I became
convinced we just need to hold on. I thought,
surely they'll at least hold on until we get this
thing stabilized to the point that the South can
take care of itself.
Next question. I mean, Westmoreland was basing
his, you know, his claims on the body counts and all
these, you know, all the information that he was
getting. What about that information? I have one
personal experience with that. There was a guy
named Shriver at CAMDA. It was a special
operation. We were working at the time, and he was
leader of a reconnaissance team. And he was across
the border. We put him in. I went to pick him up. And
this was in late 67. And Shriver indicated, now I
wasn't sitting in the room, but I was told this,
that there were Chinese passing. And every time 10
had passed, he would key the mic. He said he
couldn't talk anymore, so he would just key the
microphone. He keyed that microphone 90 times.
Now, this area is Laos. It's probably 50 miles
south of the North Vietnamese border that we're
talking about, maybe 75 miles. I'm not sure. They
just have to give them maps. That's been 20 years
now. Anyway, we took this guy down to Saigon. He had
to report to a brigadier general. who was in
charge. And the Brigadier General told him he
didn't see Chinese. He didn't see anybody type of
thing. And old Shriver was not real political. He
was an old Special Forces sergeant. He basically
told him, General, I know Chinese when I see
Chinese. And I counted 900 of them, you can believe
it or not. And he was dismissed. And the
intelligence officer said after
Tet that said they had the same kind of thing. You
know, we told them this was happening. We've told
them this. Now, either somebody in Saigon wasn't
counting,
or somebody in Saigon was counting and not telling
the general, or the damn general was ignoring the
numbers, or Washington was ignoring the numbers,
or all of the above. I don't know. I know it would
have been hard put to convince me at Pleiku In 1967,
when I watched the intensity go from minor
problems in that area in January to major battles
the size of the Saipan battles, I'm referring now
to Dokto and places like that, major battles by the
end of the year, that there was not a buildup in the
infiltration. Because had the bastards been in
there that thick earlier, we would have seen them.
They had to be coming across the border.
Turn the fan off. How old were you when you got to
Vietnam? I was 26, almost 27. I
was older, yes, and I was longer in service.
than the draftee. I was about the same age as a lot of
the regular line officers, but I was probably four
years older than my contemporaries in the
helicopter pilot area. We had a lot of guys that
were 18 and 19, right at 19, I guess. We had a lot of
them that were 20 and 21, so I was four or five years
older than probably the average pilot in my area.
But then again, I had been in the infantry and had
other aviation experience. You think you were a
little bit less susceptible than the younger guys
there? Yes, I was. I was better trained, less
susceptible. To all the rhetoric of the generals?
I definitely do. Because I had developed a good
healthy cynicism to
political things. But I think also there were a lot
of guys my age and older in the unit. And so we tried
to
pass on some of the cynicism to the younger troops.
But it's amazing. 19-year-old kids have gone over
the same area twice. 20-year-old kids have gone
over the same area twice. They're pretty good.
I'll give you an example. Cheerio. Young sergeant
out of the 101st Airborne. We were helping them
down there. I went cheerio. Yeah, I went cheerio.
And he's got his knife out. And this sergeant
looked to be about 20 years old. Fairly obvious
draftee or young RA that had been there long enough
to make sergeant. He's cutting the hair off his
arm, shaving little spots of hair. And I says, what
are you doing, sergeant? We were waiting. We were
on five-minute alert to go make myself. He says,
cutting LZs for mosquitoes, sir. And I said, why is
that? He said, malaria gets you four weeks in the
hospital.
So pretty cynical approach to the thing, you know.
I mean, he's been a brave man. He was a good leader,
leading his squad and all of this. But if I go out
being ill, I'm sure that his answer was just an
answer. He was probably just checking his knife.
They didn't trust anybody except their own
friends.
What effect did Tet have on morale?
Militarily, it was actually because we knew we'd
kick their ass. Now, I was back here, but I had
friends that were coming back. But as we watched
the political events of it unfold, what had been a
military victory, I mean, they practically wiped
out entire units of the enemy. We got over 800 of
them. One of my friends had come back from...
played coup. They killed over 800 of them on the end
of our runway out there. We knew we had just
decimated them. And the newspapers were turning
it around. I mean, I was here watching it. And I
would have thought they had overrun the American
embassy and was holding the ambassador hostage
from the way the damn news was jumping up and down
and the way Washington was reacting and jumping
through the butt. It turns out they had a sapper
squad in there led by a young lieutenant. that
basically turned into a suicide outfit that never
even got in the door of the damn embassy. They blew a
hole in the wall and got in the compound. I mean,
it's the best they were able to do. But our own
press... They weren't supposed to be able to get
that far, even on the embassy grounds. Well, I
would have challenged that. I challenge the
military knowledge of the individuals making
those decisions and the reporters reporting
them. That's another reason to always be cynical
of the press because you usually find that they're
not that well educated, at least in the subjects
that they try to write about. And they don't care
too much about calling with experts that disagree
with preconceived opinions. But three people
were not supposed to be able to take 747s.
Four people were not supposed to be able to take
747s to the middle of the desert and blow them up.
Five and six people are not supposed to be able to
get in an embassy and hold the entire embassy. Half
a dozen people are not supposed to be able to go in
and blow something all to pieces. Well, special
troops and people who are dedicated terrorists
can do this sort of thing. And had the newspapers
reported this as a group of special troops or
commandos, who had gotten into the walls, but
we've got them contained, the American public
wouldn't have been half as shocked. But they may
sound like, you know, they're coming out of the
woodwork and coming through the floors and
everything else. Not understanding, I mean, look
at how panic-stricken the U.S. is and a lot of other
countries are today over terrorism. They know
that a few key, dedicated individuals can do a lot
of things. And when you bring out 50,000 of them,
and the few key dedicated individuals that are
leading them, and you chop them to the knees. The
strongest military defeat, yet our press and the
North Vietnamese public relations were able to
turn that into a great victory for the North. One of
the things that's not generally publicized is one
of the newspaper sources, and if your professor
knows any newsmen, let him ask. One of the sources
was a local Vietnamese reporter who was in the know
on everything. And they would go to him for the true
story. And to the point that I think it was either
Time or Newsweek had this Nguyen, whatever his
name was, listed on their masthead as the
assistant head of the Saigon Bureau. Well, the day
the country fell, the bastard was standing there
in the uniform and markings of a colonel of
intelligence, North Vietnamese regular army.
They didn't trust their own sources, so they go to
this great source and ask him to check on them. If he
doesn't believe it, tell him to go back and get a
1973, 74, or early 75 issue of those two magazines
and start looking down. and find the Vietnamese
assistant, and then tell him to ask Vietnamese who
this man was. That would have been like Goebbels
editing the New York Times in World War II. How do
you think our victories would have looked then? I
can imagine. All right, let's get back to you
again. You were there for two and a half tours? Two
tours plus two months. Two tours and two months.
Why'd you finally, why'd you stay first of all?
Why'd you go? Because I believed in what we were
doing.
I believed
in, I grew up in the, I grew into my teens in the 50s.
And I believed in my country. I mean, World War II I
was five or six years old when it ended. Patriotism
and belief in your country was very strong as I was
growing up, doing things for your country. When
our president stood up and said, ask not what the
country can do for you, but what you can do for your
country. Those were real words to me. I
volunteered for a special unit, entered the
service just shortly before that time.
Volunteered for a special unit then. Because I
felt that we had to stop the communists, stop them
in Cuba. The unit that I was with was supposed to
give air support at the Bay of Pigs. And that's the
first time I got disillusioned when we were told
that no air support, when the public was told no air
support was promised. I was in the unit that was
going to give the air support. And Jimmy Houck in
Alexander, Louisiana, who's there today, was in
the unit that was going to provide the air support.
That's when I first began to distrust
politicians. First began to question some of the
decisions. Like I said, you get cynical pretty
early. Go ahead with the next question. Anyway, I
believed in what we were doing. And why did you
decide to finally leave? Orders.
So you were ordered out. The American Army drew
down in Vietnam in 1973, with the exception of a
few, very few, unit advisors assigned to the
Vietnamese Army and unit advisors or instructors
assigned to the Vietnamese Air Force.
The country fell in 1975.
They're probably, if you notice, the evacuation
was for the most part evacuation of civilian and
diplomatic personnel, not massive units. A lot of
civilian personnel were over there maintaining
aircraft. Bell had a bunch of people over there on
contracts to the South End. A hell of a lot of
civilians over there making money on contracts.
Damn few military.
doesn't alter the fact
1973 they had the drawdown my last time there was
1971 early 71 I was there for a Board of Inquiry at
that time
not anything related to something like Cali but
the American press, I think I read you the letter
about how disgusted I was over the Cali affair. I
said that if this is true, that someone has made a
terrible mistake in allowing such a man to become
an officer in the United States Army, that this is
Nazi Germany, not the American Army. I was very
proud of the fact that it was a helicopter pilot
that stopped the fight, stopped the slaughter,
rather, that he took his guns off his door gunners
and he told the American army lieutenant that if he
didn't stop it he would kill him and the American
army stopped the slaughter the American army
lieutenant stopped the slaughter I'm very
disappointed then that the army had the cover up
I'm convinced that Cali didn't act on his own
initiative without either benign neglect or
quasi approval from above at least at the
battalion if not the divisional level And I
believe this because I know the control that
American units were under in combat.
For him to be able to go out and slaughter that
village and no questions would be asked, he had to
have known that no punishment would be
forthcoming. We had a guy kill enemy soldiers one
time.
And he had been in combat a long time, but he decided
he wanted that enemy soldier's skull for a candle
holder. So every time somebody would come out to
try to get that soldier to bury him, he would strafe
him.
And our commander threatened the court-martial.
He didn't knock that bullshit off. For the most
part, the commanders of the American Army over
there were pretty damned honorable men, a lot more
so than I've found in civilian life. They still
believed in the ethics of your word as your bond.
And an officer don't lie to another officer. An
officer doesn't lie.
So when you left, it was basically part of the
withdrawal, phased out. Yeah. Nixon's policy.
Right. Vietnamization. What did you think of that
policy? Was there peace and honor? The policy as it
was initially set up, we had spent several years
training Vietnamese pilots. I can personally
vouch for that. And some of them were pretty good.
They weren't as good in some cases as we were
because I don't believe they, well, first off,
they didn't have the mechanical aptitude that a
lot of our people had But they were pretty good
pilots, and they were pretty dedicated young men.
So I can vouch for the Vietnamization coming
along. And we didn't give them a lot of offensive
weapons, by the way. And by that offensive, I mean
something capable of going north. They didn't
have heavy bombers. They didn't have heavy
fighters. They didn't have the legs on the little
fire planes. They had to go more than a couple
hundred miles.
We set them up as a defensive anti-guerrilla army.
And when those tanks came down, they didn't have
anti-tank weapons. We hadn't given them
anti-tank weapons. They didn't have anything out
there really capable of stopping tanks, mainline
Soviet tanks, which is what came down in
five-division strength.
If that happened, the contingency plan was the
United States would come in and stop them, as we did
in 72. We went in there with tow missiles and the
anti-armor capability and stopped the armor
invasion at Khantoum and Dokto. Yet when it
happened the second time, our political will was
destroyed. A lot of it was destroyed by a press
that, in my opinion, was duped or had other
motives. Now, he may say, hence sour grapes, but
it's my opinion. And the South Vietnamese Army did
not have anti-tank weapons. They didn't have
anti-tank units. And when those armored
divisions rolled south, they rolled up just like
anybody else rolls up. Now, they could have
stopped those tanks had they been suicidal. They
could have stopped those tanks had they been
suicidal and properly led, yes, because the North
Vietnamese were suicidal in a lot of cases. They
could have stopped those tanks with bodies
leaping on them as the Hungarian stopped tanks.
They couldn't have stopped them indefinitely.
But when they wake up and see their senior
French-trained officer corps beating feet, and
they hear on the radios, and for the most part the
young ones spoke pretty good English, And they had
shortwave radios all over the place. And when they
hear the United States saying, we're not coming in
there, we're not going to do anything, who the hell
expects them to stick around? Would you stick
around?
So Vietnamization worked as long as it stayed an
anti-guerrilla, light infantry war. When it
became an armored war, they folded up the northern
part of the country in a matter of days. and then
started south, and the rest of it fell of its own
weight.
So they turned things over to them, but didn't...
Well, we didn't give them the anti-armor
capability, and we didn't give them the air
support when they needed it. Now, you asked me what
I would consider a victory or something like that?
Yeah, that's my next question. I thought you'd ask
that. What would have constituted victory in
Vietnam? A stabilized, democratic South
Vietnam. And I don't mean necessarily a U.S.
puppet or anything of that nature. A stabilized,
democratic South Vietnam. Democracy,
multi-party democracy. Socialism if they wanted
it. Capitalism to whatever extent they desired
it. Soviet client state is a total and absolute
defeat.
I hear when I said the Soviet client states an
absolute total defeat. They now threaten the
Philippines. One of the finest submarine bases in
the Pacific for the Soviet fleet that outflanks
our Japanese lines of communication is now Soviet
owned. The aircraft sitting there threaten the
Philippines and as you can see the Philippines are
becoming unstable as a result of it. The biggest
disgrace though is that we sat here for years when
people were telling us what was going on the
genocide that was occurring with the yellow rain
and they say yellow rain is beefy that's a crock i
have documents in my work yellow rain is not beefy
it's a toxin uh
to allow three million Cambodians, a million
Laotians, and thousands and thousands of South
Vietnamese to be murdered and not say a word, not go
in and militarily destroy the people responsible
or punish the people responsible. It's like
chemical warfare because we kept our mouth shut
over the Middle Eastern atrocities up until very
recently. We allowed them to continue, and now
we've got the chemical warfare genie out of the
bag, and it's going full guns around the world.
Well, the same thing happened with the genocide
genie there. They made a little bit of yelling
after China was lost, and millions were being
killed, but they never tried to do anything to stop
it. As a result, it was repeated. in Southeast
Asia. That genie's out of the bottle. There are the
war crimes trials of World War II, the punishment
of the guilty, the infliction of the fines on the
country, the isolation. Even to this day, Germany
is still isolated in parts of the world because of
what she did. And the Soviet Union is beginning to
be understood and admit that, yes, there were
several of those World War II millions that were
attributed to death in World War II. There were
several million of those were Stalin purge
victims of the 30s.
That genie's out of the bag, and we didn't do a damn
thing. And that's the biggest crime, as far as I'm
concerned, that the same people who were yelling
about the homicides that we were committing,
quotes,
I know I've seen people die or take hits to keep them
shooting in places that they were ordered not to
shoot at. They were that disciplined. And to not
see the press doing anything other than, well, the
killing fields and stuff like that are starting to
come out. But the outrage that should have been
occurring while it was going on wasn't there. And
they can't say they didn't know. Thousands of
people were coming out. Photographic evidence
was coming out.
These are the disgraces of Vietnam, not the fact
that we lost. The fact that we lost through such a
political
thing may have been a godsend because they've now
created an attitude among the soldiers that I
won't go to war again, but if I go, I'm going to win
it. They've got a real problem there. I left the
military and I still talk to my friends. I believe
that is the attitude. may not say it publicly but i
grew up with some of these guys that are colonels
and generals now and i know how they think another
problem is that the same people who were damning
the americans are not only not yelling about paul
pott they're trying to put his butt back in there
and let him do it all over again if they don't When
the South Vietnamese, or correction, when the
Vietnamese pull out of Cambodia this time, if they
allow Pol Pot to take that thing over, they're
going to have another killing field. Another
genocide.
And yet we're supporting him. Our press is not
talking about what a rotten SOB he is. The man
should be executed as a war criminal, along with
several of the leaders of the North. The Chinese
army that came down to teach Vietnam a lesson in
1979 didn't go reeling back because the South
Vietnamese were such good fighters. They went
reeling back because their lead regiments were
sprayed with nerve gas and mustard gas, and the
Chinese army is not equipped for gas warfare any
better than we are. They went roaring back north
after three weeks, not because the Vietnamese are
such good fighters, because they are the Soviet
client state and they used gas warfare. Now we've
let that genie out of the bag and haven't yelled.
We've allowed genocide to occur greater than all
the casualties that the French army and the
American armies and the Australian armies and the
Thai armies and all of the armies that fought in
Vietnam. They've allowed a greater genocide to
occur without raising one word than all those
armies inflicted on all the soldiers they were
fighting as well as the civilian population.
Where are these great peace lovers now? Where's
Jane Fonda? She was up north making calls to us
after she'd had her show in the South. She's
running around now that her political turkey of a
Chicago 7 boyfriend is thinking about running for
other offices. I understand they're getting
divorced now, good. But she was ready to
apologize. Well, with the Vietnam Helicopter
Pilots Association, we all agreed. When she
apologizes to every goddamn name on that wall in
Washington, then come talk to me. But where is she
in relationship to the genocide that has
occurred? And it's about to occur again as the
North Vietnamese Army pulls out of Cambodia.
Where is the newspapers that should be raising
hell? Ask your professor to ask his students to ask
their hometown papers that.
So that's the great defeat. That is the great
defeat. It's the moral defeat of the things that
this world had fought two wars to eliminate. Gas
warfare was outlawed after World War I. It didn't
come up except, well, the Russians and the Germans
used it on each other once and claimed it was an
accident. We had a, quote, accident in southern
Italy. I mean, you know. They didn't use it, even in
their worst moments. Countries were going down.
They did not unleash the gas warfare genie because
they knew how horrible that stuff was. And
genocide, after the ovens of all the
concentration camps were exposed, and after the
prison camps of Asia were exposed,
genocide was as chemical warfare.
Yet the political opportunist who came to power as
a result of the 60s genuine movement in concern for
peace, the political opportunist who came in
power there, didn't have the will to either
militarily or even diplomatically raise cane,
not only over the chemical genie. They allowed it
to begin in the 60s and didn't say a word about it
until all of a sudden 5,000 people get 5,000. Hell,
they killed 14,000 coming across the shuttle
waterway. The only thing it was is they weren't
5,000 civilian Kurds. They were 14,000. Iranian
soldiers. Sprayed them just like fly spray,
killed them as dead as a hammer. I mean, they were
still human beings. And there wasn't a word said
about that. When they finally did decide to
publicize it, it popped up for about a year, six
months, and it's gone again. Half the countries
around the world now, third world countries, are
building chemical factories because they, hey,
we've got an answer to high-tech warfare. That
chemical genie was unleashed. Nobody said
anything. Genocide was allowed to occur. Nobody
was punished. That's the tragedy of the Vietnam
defeat. It's the tragedy of the lack of will of the
political leadership of half the world as a result
of the Vietnam defeat. And the corruption of the
American press, and I think to a great extent the
corruption of the American school system.
Because there are certain, in my opinion,
departments that are not necessarily interested
in teaching history correctly or teaching values
correctly. They're interested in fostering or
furthering some private political agenda. I'm
not a rightist, I'm not a leftist, I think I'm a
humanist. That's
bad. Okay, the war, some people came out of it
stronger, others it affected them in a negative
way. What effects the war had on you? on your life
since?
I made friendships there that are still as strong
as family relationships are to this day.
It gave me a sense of values as to what is really
important. I've told my children to choose their
fights as carefully as they choose their friends,
make sure they're worth it. Because as you said, it
did affect people in a negative way. As you said
earlier, I was more mature and probably a little
better able to handle it than some 18 or 19 year old
boy that was drafted out of school or off the
streets, put into basic training for three
months, stuck in combat, and a week later he's
seeing people that he had been talking to blown
apart.
One guy said that there's nothing, and I believe
this came out of, I'm not sure whether it came out of
Vietnam or whether it was out of World War II, but I
heard this statement or I read it. There is nothing
more dangerous than a 19-year-old kid
He just watched his buddy get his brains blown out.
So some of the things that these young soldiers
did, they're
understandable. Some of them coming back
mentally, having problems. I came back to a wife, a
new baby, and some sense of family security. and
back into the military community where what I did
was appreciated. Yet I came back on the aircraft
with both times. Very bad the second time. Came
back on the aircraft with young kids and landing in
California or in Washington depending on where we
came into. In my case it was California. You go
down, take the bus from the base to the airport and
in the airport You have to wear your uniform
because that's what you've got. And you've got
your ribbons on it. And you have people calling you
baby killer or making comments. And I could see how
that would affect a 19- or 20-year-old man. Now, it
made me very angry. And the young hippie saw that if
he pursued his line of questioning, he was
probably going to get killed. But you have to
understand this kid has been in combat about a week
before this occurs. Thinks he's doing something
right because he's been told he's been doing
something right. His country has said he's been
doing something right. His president and his
generals have given him medals. And he steps off an
airplane. And the first thing he sees is his
contemporaries calling him fool, baby killer,
murderer, spitting at him. He wants to get out of
that uniform and get away from that as quickly as
possible. And he goes into a community where there
may not have been another veteran, unless he
happened to have known him personally, because
they weren't walking around advertising. He had
nobody to talk to. When I came back, I had the five
guys that I'd known for a long time. And for four or
five years after that, we went through our own
withdrawal. We drank. We talked, we did our job, we
flew, we did our thing. But looking back on it, that
was our way of dealing with the stresses, and it
took two or three years to draw that. There was no
American Legion organization waiting there for
him when he came back from Vietnam. That was a home
for World War II guys to sit around and swap glides
and drink beer and play bingo. And he goes to the
VFWs looking at the same thing, or at the best, it
was Korean guys that were 15 years older than him.
And When you would go into those places, you'd
hear, oh, well, yeah, you have to think, you should
have been there in my war. Boy, you won't see
something. I mean, he's trying to convince them
this kid has just been shot all to hell or seen
something like that. I can understand how he got
screwed up. And in World War II, they had these
camps for these guys who had really been in intense
combat or POWs. They tried to bring them down. Army
brought this guy back, dumped him on the goddamn
streets with an early discharge because they were
winding down, and put him on the streets back to his
home. The VA was a bureaucracy and still is a
bureaucracy. that was geared to help the World War
II veteran. And they talk a good deal about helping
the modern vet. But basically what they do is they
leave the modern vet to get enough political
power. And that's why you have organizations. I
don't belong to anything with the Vietnam
Helicopter Power Association. I haven't even
joined a church since that period, because I'm
disgusted with organizations.
They don't seem to work. But these veterans
organizations, these quasi-things that were
formed locally, in some cases nationally, that
tend to get together and rap and bullshit. I've
seen guys sitting there that I know spent the war at
Tonsenut. And they're talking about how bad the
war is. And I've seen guys talk stories and those
kind of things. I've gone to these gun shows and
talked to them. And you find out where they were,
and you start pinning them down. And the closest
thing I saw to combat is they might have heard an
explosion. they're claiming they're blaming all
their problems on it i say there are some genuine
casualties out of that war and they were not taken
care of and that's a disgrace and everybody that
was over there paid his dues and served and should
be helped i don't care if he came back and in order to
ingratiate himself back into this community he
felt ostracized from it he became a doper or went
180 out was it to make friends again with people who
he felt wouldn't be friends with him if he didn't do
that. I don't know why they did it. But there's no
organizations there to help them, or at least to
help them with any consistency.
What ties do you have with Vietnam right now still?
The Vietnam Helicopter Pilots Association, we
won't allow politicians to address us. We're a
closed organization. Anybody who flew
helicopters in Vietnam can belong, even
communists. Our bylaws don't preclude the Red
Army if one of them wants to join. We've discussed
that. We've allowed the South Vietnamese
helicopter pilots to join, Australian
helicopter pilots to join us. The only criteria is
you had to have flown helicopters over there. And
our only action,
other than getting together, checking on people,
seeing who's where, helping each other if we can,
is to try to write history primarily of US Army
aviation in the Vietnam War and correct it because
we found that casualties were being hidden. We've
had a terrible time digging up the helicopter
pilot casualties. If a guy died on the ground as a
result of his aircraft coming in and then he gets
down and he gets shot on the ground, he's a ground
casualty. If his aircraft was sitting on the
ground in an assault and got hit with a mortar
shell, the fact that the rotor was turning, he had
just landed and was attempting to take off. The
plane blew up. It was not counted as an aviation
casualty. It was a ground casualty. It was 10 years
after the war was over before we knew that we were
taking a higher casualty rate in the helicopter
world than the Army or Marine infantry. But as you
can see from the book, we've got it documented.
We've dug out the government records. And so it's
to write the history of the unit, correct the
records, and scholarships. And that's it, other
than just a network of good old boys. Good old boys,
huh? Yeah, and good old boys in an old fashioned
sense of guys who were there and the fact that you
were there makes you my friend until you show me
you're not type of thing it's a camaraderie that
was built up it was a brotherhood of war is old
Griffin's book says by the way that's not his real
name Griffin he used the term Griffin as it was used
by someone long ago which basically says put them
off the track of who you really are or what you're
really doing. But that's the coin Brotherhood of
War is titled.
But
I can see
a guy who's our president right now was very much a
part of the decision processes, the political
processes, in 1973. He was ambassador to China.
The protégés of Lodge The Congress is full of the
opportunists who came in at that time, and they're
doing the same thing in Central America. They're
ripping off another plumb to feed to the
communists with a beautiful air base. It's going
to make a dam now, but they're going to allow a
slaughter to occur. I think socialism would be
good for South America. It's the only way to get the
dons and the princes out of the damn power
structure and get something to the peons. But
there's a distinguishing element between
communism and socialism. I mean, one is a little
more democratic multi-party.
And I don't believe a man should have to give up
total freedom or some form of security in order to
eat, which is what the communists demand. And then
their system is so damn inefficient that it fails
to feed the man what they've promised. But they've
got the guns to enforce their rule.